So, the antidote to doing things by hand
is that you should always, you
should try to teach a computer to do
whatever it is about to do.
So, that's the so the idea is that you're
going to, you want to
try to automate, in some sense everything
that you do in your analysis.
So if you, if something and particularly
if you're doing,
working with data, the parts of your kind
of project
that work with the data, that process the
data, you
should always try to teach a computer to
do it.
for, there's two reasons why you should do
this.
One is that if you can, if you can teach a
computer to do it, then you have a
solid rules and solid, kind of concrete
instructions for what to do.
And so there's no room for fuzziness to to
kind of play into the
data analysis because the computer doesn't
accept,
generally speaking, won't accept that kind
of fuzziness.
They need exact programming instructions.
And so, when you give instructions
to a computer, essentially what you're
doing, is you're writing down
exactly what you mean to do and how it
should be done.
And that is essentially the definition of
reproducibility, right?
So, if you can teach a computer, it's
almost guaranteed that what
you're going to do is re, is reproducible
to a large extent.
And so even if you're going to do
something just once
it's useful to try to teach a computer to
do it.
And it may involve using a different,
using a variety
of programming languages.
You might use R, you might use something
else.
But if you can get your computer to
do something for you that's always better
for reproducibility.
It may be less convenient for you because
it takes longer to program a computer.
But it will, it will pay you back in the
sense
that everything that you do in this way
will be reproducible.
So, as a quick example something that's
very common that you'll have to do
in, in most projects is to download some
data and this data might be available
on the web.
So for one example you can might go to
the UCI machine learning repository go to
that website.
And then you might go to simply like you
know, there's the Bike
Sharing Dataset, so you click on the bike
sharing data set web page.
You click on the data folder and then
inside the data folder
is a link to the zip file which contains
the data set.
You can choose the kind of save linked
file
as in your web browser then you down,
then,
then you have to name a file on your local
computer and a folder and then save it,
right.
So these are all things that are very
natural to do.
But you'll notice that the list of
instructions that I had
to discuss was actually rather lengthy for
this very simple operation.
So, an alternative is to just teach your
computer to do all that.
And in fact, in R, it's quite
straightforward.
You can use the download.file function.
And, and then just download the file
directly onto your computer.
So, one of the nice things, actually,
this, the the example has some advantages.
Because, first of all you'll notice that
the
full URL to the dataset is specified,
right?
So, there's no ambiguity there.
You don't have to click on the website,
then
click on the folder, then click on the zip
file.
You get the whole URL to the, to the
dataset.
It's right there.
It's very specific And furthermore, the
name of the
file that you save to your computer is
also specified.
So, for example, if you download a file
using a web browser,
you always have the option of renaming the
file to be something else.
But if that's not documented then, then
it's very difficult to
link the renamed file to the original
dataset on the web.
But here I explicitly specify in the code
that the local dataset is going to be
called Bike-Sharing-Dataset.zip.
And so.
Now I know what file to look for after
this code has been executed.
I know exactly which directory I saved the
data set to.
So I saved the data set to a directory
called ProjectData.
And so now I don't have to wonder what
directory the
dataset was saved to, well, you know, for
example in
the, in, downloading it from the website
through the web browser.
And this code can always be executed in R,
can, even if you only need to do this
once.
Someone else could execute this same exact
code, as
long as they're using R and they'll, as
long
as the URL and the website hasn't change,
they'll
download the same data site, the, the same
dataset.
Now, of course there are many things that
are out
of your control, so for, so for example,
if you don't
run the website then you're.
You'll have to depend on the operators of
the website not making lots of changes.
But to, to the extent that things are in
your control, the more that you
can code things like this for example,
this simple download.file function the
better you'll be.
Another general piece of advice is to use
some verse, some sort of version control
software, right.
And there are many different types of
software
in this course and in this series in
general.
We, we tend to focus on Git which is
a very nice version control software and
it's coupled with
nice websites like GitHub and BitBucket
which can be used
to kind of publish code and other types of
projects.
So, I think the main
feature to keep in mind when you use a
version control system in a
data analysis project is that it helps to
slow you down a little bit, okay.
So you might, that might sound like a bad
thing but slowing people down is often
good, because we
often, when you have a project and you're
very excited
about the data, and you want to get into
it.
You just start doing things and you start
working with
the data, and you're not really keeping
track of what's happening.
And so diversion control software whatever
it is that you use will
help to kind of make you stop, think
about what's been done, think about what
changes have
been made, commit changes to a repository
so that
you can have a record of what's been done.
And then kind of move along step by step
and this is useful for a data analysis
because you have a log of kind of what
has happened and what and what direction
you've gone.
If you want to go back, you can go back
and there's a record of what you found.
So, if in, in the course of, for example,
your exploratory
analysis or whatever it is you're doing.
You find something interesting.
You have a history of kind of how you got
there.
And so, version control systems can be
very
useful for this type of for this purpose.
Of course software like Git can be used
to,
you know track and tag snapshots of, of,
the project.
You can revert to old versions.
All of this kind of stuff is pretty
standard in version control systems.
And so it's useful if you can to as
you're progressing in a project to add
project, to add changes in small chunks.
So don't just add like 100 files at once
in a massive commit.
But, if you can break your analysis down
into
logical pieces and add them piece at a
time,
this will help you into in reading the
history
and understanding kind of what was done in
the past.
Keeping track of your software environment
is very important
for reproducibility because a lot of
complex projects will involve
chaining together many tools and merging
different datasets and
some tools and datasets may only work with
certain environments.
And so the software in the general
computing environment can
be, can in fact me critical for
reproducing an analysis.
So, there are a number of different
features that you might
want to keep track of in your software
environment and not all
of them are necessarily critical for every
type of
project but just keep a couple things in
mind.
Which are fairly common.
The first is your computer architecture
and this is generally, it's
usually not too important it was probably
more important in the past.
But but a general understanding of what
kind of computer architecture you're
working on is useful if you need to
communicate that to someone else.
So the CPU that you are using, is it an
Intel chip, is an AMD chip, an ARM chip.
Who makes the CPU can
be useful.
Another aspect of that is whether it's
32-bit or
64-bit that can have an impact on some
software.
Are you using graphical processing units
or GPUs.
Things like that are useful to keep, to
kind of have in your mind to keep track
of.
The operating system can be very
important.
So, are you using a Windows operating
system, Mac OS, Linux, Unix?
Some other version of Linux?
This can be very important because some
software only works on Windows.
Some only works
on the Mac, etcetera like that.
So, if someone wants to reproduce what
you've done.
And you've used a piece of software that
only runs on Windows.
Then they're going to have to find
themself a
Window, a Windows machine or use a Windows
emulator.
Your software tool chain is very important
and typically
you'll be using lots of different pieces
of software.
Some of it will be standard for example
the
Web browser pretty much everyone will have
a Web browser.
But things like compilers and interpreters
the shell that you're using, are you using
the Bash shell or something like that.
Different programming languages that you
use, C, Perl, Python, R or whatever it is.
If you're using different database
back-ends, it's important to
know which ones you're using to any data
analysis software.
All these things should be noted because
people,
if someone wants to reproduce what you've
done, they're
going to have to reproduce this entire
environment, all
the compilers that you used, etcetera
things like that.
And so, that's very important to keep in
mind.
Any supporting software particularly
things like
libraries software libraries or R
packages, which
are, and other types of dependencies are
going to be important to keep track of.
Any external dependencies so these are
things that are kind of outside your
computer.
You know external websites.
Are you downloading data from, from
central repositories.
Are there other remote databases that
you'll be querying.
Do you get your software from other
software repositories.
So things like that.
Maybe important for your analysis.
And for all of these things, it's usually
important to keep track of the version
numbers because as other people develop
the software
they're going to make changes that may
break dependencies
And so, if your project was done with a
certain version of an operating system
or software it may be that it's only
reproducible using that version and that
future versions
are not or cannot be used.
So, knowing the exact version number for
everything if
it's available, is important to keep a
note of.
So one small example for example, is in R.
If you use the sessionInfo function.
What this tends, what this will do is
it'll tell
you kind of as much as it can about your
environment.
You can see this is the output from my
computer here.
I'm using R version 3.0.2 Patched and you
can use
maybe the subversion or vision number
which
is 64849 so it's actually quite precise.
I'm on a 64-bit Intel compatible computer
x86 and I'm using an an Apple computer.
And I'm in the kind of the the US
English locale, so that's the kind of
language environment.
these, I have the following R packages
installed,
stats, graphics, grDevices these are all
the base packages
that come with R.
I've got other packages installed.
And then there are other packages that
are,
I'm sorry, loaded, and there are other
packages
that are not loaded but their name space
is available, so things like knitr,
markdown yaml etcetera.
And so these are all kind of what my, my
R environment looks like as I was doing my
analysis.
Of course, this is just a small piece of
my entire software
environment but it's useful to have this
kind of detailed information in general.